Windows Downloads Using Scripting
Languages
We can leverage scripting engines such as
VBScript and PowerShell
to download files on our victim machine.
For example, the following set of
non-interactive echo commands,
when pasted into a remote shell,
will write out a wget.vbs script that
acts as a simple HTTP downloader:
Let’s select all of this and copy it to
our clipboard.
We’ll also copy the Windows version
of wget to our webroot
so we have something to download.
Now we’ll paste our echo commands into
the Windows bind shell to create wget.vbs.
Now we can run our wget.vbs file
with cscript
to download files from our Kali machine:
The script requires a source URI and the
local filename for the download.
Great, our file was downloaded correctly.
For more recent versions of Windows,
we can use PowerShell
as an even simpler download alternative.
This example shows an implementation
of a downloader script
using the System.Net.WebClient
PowerShell class.
Let’s copy this to the clipboard and
paste it into our bind shell terminal.
Now we can use PowerShell to run
the script and download our file.
However, to ensure both correct
and stealthy execution,
we specify a number of options
in the execution of the script.
First, we must allow execution of
PowerShell scripts
with the -ExecutionPolicy keyword.
Next, we will use NoLogo and
NonInteractive
to hide the PowerShell logo banner
and suppress the interactive PowerShell
prompt, respectively.
The NoProfile keyword will prevent
PowerShell
from loading the default profile (which
is not needed),
and finally we specify the script
with File.
Rather than creating a script, we can
execute all of the commands
as a one-liner.
If we want to download and execute a
PowerShell script
without saving it to disk,
we can once again use the
System.Net.Webclient class.
This is done by combining the
DownloadString method
with the Invoke-Expression cmdlet.
To demonstrate this, we’ll use a simple
powershell script on our Kali machine.
Next, we’ll run the script on our
compromised Windows machine.
The content of the PowerShell script was
downloaded from our Kali machine
and successfully executed without
saving it to the target’s hard disk.